charter.md, before:

# Charter of Data Distribution Working Group (DDWG)

## Updates
| Date | Changes |
| --- | --- |
| November 2013 | Initial Charter creation |
| October 2018 | Hard drives no longer distributed regularly, BAS now distribution institution | 
| May 2020 | Members list updated, mailing list change, definitions added,  |

## Definitions
 - IQDAT/BFIQ: Beamformed IQ data
 - RAWACF/DAT: Correlation data
 - Level 0 Data: IQDAT or BFIQ data
 - Level 1 Data: RAWACF or DAT data
 - WG: Working group
 - PI Institutions: Institutions that produce SuperDARN radar data adhering to the PI agreement
 - BAS: British Antarctic Survey
 - USASK: University of Saskatchewan
 - VT : Virginia Tech
 - NIPR: National Institute of Polar Research
 - JHU/APL: Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory
 - UAF: University of Alaska Fairbanks
 - IAPS/INAF: Institute for Space Astrophysics and Planetology 
 - BOM: Bureau of Meteorology
 - PRIC: Polar Research Institute of China
 - ISEE: Institute for Space-Earth Environmental Research
 - IRAP: Research Institute in Astrophysics and Planetology 
 - NICT: National Institute of Information and Communications Technology
 - DICE/UEC: University of Electro-Communications
 - SDU: Shandong University
 - UNIS: The University Centre in Svalbard
 - UKZN: University of KwaZulu-Natal
 
## Purpose

This WG is charged with maintaining the protocols for transferring Level 1 data 
files from PI institutions, first to holding institutions and 
ultimately to distribution institutions where they are merged, checked, catalogued and copied to 
servers for community access. 

## Holding Institution(s)

The holding institution prior to October 1<sup>st</sup>, 2013 was JHU/APL. See Appendix A 
for a description of the system that was in place at JHU/APL.

The holding institution beginning October 1<sup>st</sup>, 2013 is Virginia Tech. 
See Appendix B for a description of the system in place at Virginia Tech.

An additional holding institution was put in place in 2016 at BAS, and the official 
announcement was made on January 24 2017. Note that BAS is also a distribution institution.

## Distribution Institution(s)

The distribution institutions are currently USASK and BAS. See Appendix C for a description
of the current system in place at USASK, and a brief description of the 
previous system. See Appendix D for a description of the current system in place at BAS.

## Membership

The membership of the working group consists of several types of members:

1. The chair or co-chairs
2. Those responsible for providing data to the holding institution(s)
3. Those responsible for accessing data from data mirrors to download to their institution.
4. Others who wish to observe.

The current membership includes:

Responsibilty | Name | Institution | Radars
--- | --- | --- | ---
Chair | Kevin Krieger | USASK | sas, pgr, rkn, inv, cly
Member | Marci Detwiller | USASK | sas, pgr, rkn, inv, cly
Member | Marina Schmidt | USASK | sas, pgr, rkn, inv, cly
Member | Keith Kotyk | USASK | sas, pgr, rkn, inv, cly
Member | Kevin Sterne | VT | bks, kap, gbr, fhe, fhw
Member | Simon Shepherd | Dartmouth | cve, cvw
Member | Evan Thomas | Dartmouth | cve, cvw
Member | Akira Sessai Yukimatu | NIPR | sye, sys
Member | Jordan Wiker | JHU/APL | wal
Member | Enrico Simeoli | IAPS/INAF | dce, dcn
Member | Kehe Wang | BOM
Member | John Devlin | LaTrobe | tig, unw, bpk
Member | Jim Whittington | LaTrobe | tig, unw, bpk
Member | Mark Gentile | LaTrobe | tig, unw, bpk
Member | Andrew McDonald | LaTrobe | tig, unw, bpk
Member | Paul Breen | BAS | fir
Member | Tim Barnes | BAS | fir
Member | Bill Bristow | UAF | sps, mcm, ade, adw, kod
Member | Jianjun Liu | PRIC | zho
Member | Hongqiao Hu | PRIC | zho
Member | Judy Stephenson | UKZN | san
Member | Tomoaki Hori | ISEE | hok, hkw
Member | Nozomu Nishitani | ISEE | hok, hkw
Member | Aurélie Marchaudon | IRAP | ker
Member | Tsutomu Nagatsuma | NICT | ksr
Member | Keisuke Hosokawa | DICE/UEC |
Member | Chris Thomas | Leicester | han, pyk, sto
Member | Tim Yeoman | Leicester | han, pyk, sto
Member | Qinghe Zhang | SDU
Member | Zanyang Xing | SDU
Member | Mikko Syrjäsuo| UNIS | lyr
Observer | Mike Ruohoniemi | VT
Observer | Kathryn McWilliams | USASK
Observer | Dieter Andre | USASK
Observer | Jean-Pierre St.Maurice | USASK
Observer | Federica Marcucci | IAPS/INAF 

## Communications

Communication shall primarily be done over email via the DDWG mailing list set up by Nozomu Nishitani,
maintained at Nagoya University. To send email to the list, send mail to <darn-ddwg@isee.nagoya-u.ac.jp>.
Previously, a mailing list set up by Julian Thornhill, maintained by Leicester University, was used. 
That list address was <darn-ddwg@ion.le.ac.uk>.

A person wishing to subscribe to the DDWG emailing list should contact the Chair 
(or co-Chairs) or the current PI institution’s member about subscribing to this list. 
Subscribing to the list should be only at the approval of the Chair (or co-Chairs) so that they 
are aware of an addition or change within a PI institution.

## Responsibilities

Chair/Co-Chair: Provide updates on the status of the SuperDARN data distribution system to the 
members of the DDWG. Operate and maintain the SuperDARN holding and Distribution institution 
systems. Track down gaps in data and resolve them, either by providing an explanation for why 
the data is missing, or retrieving it from the PI institution responsible if it is not a real gap.

Members responsible for providing data to the holding institution: Provide data in a timely and 
preferably automated manner to the holding institution(s), either by 'pushing' the data or by 
placing it in a holding area for the holding institution to 'pull'. 
Help with gap resolution when requested.

Members responsible for accessing data from mirrors: Set up and maintain a way of downloading 
data from the mirrors in a timely fashion for their PI institution. 
Provide feedback on the mirror setup.

Observers: Provide feedback or input on discussions.

Commit message:

adding policy skeletons, additional definitions

charter.md, after:

# Charter of Data Distribution Working Group (DDWG)

This charter outlines the necessary information that the DDWG requires to operate effectively.

## Updates
| Date | Changes |
| --- | --- |
| November 2013 | Initial Charter creation |
| October 2018 | Hard drives no longer distributed regularly, BAS now distribution institution | 
| May 2020 | Members list updated, mailing list change, definitions added,  |

## Definitions
 - IQDAT/BFIQ: Beamformed IQ data
 - RAWACF/DAT: Correlation data
 - Level 0 Data: IQDAT or BFIQ data
 - Level 1 Data: RAWACF or DAT data
 - WG: Working group
 - PI Institutions: Institutions that produce SuperDARN radar data adhering to the PI agreement
 - DSWG: Data Standards Working Group: <https://github.com/SuperDARN/dswg-published-docs>
 - DAWG: Data Analysis Working Group: 
 
## Institutions
 - BAS: British Antarctic Survey
 - USASK: University of Saskatchewan
 - VT : Virginia Tech
 - NIPR: National Institute of Polar Research
 - JHU/APL: Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory
 - UAF: University of Alaska Fairbanks
 - IAPS/INAF: Institute for Space Astrophysics and Planetology 
 - BOM: Bureau of Meteorology
 - PRIC: Polar Research Institute of China
 - ISEE: Institute for Space-Earth Environmental Research
 - IRAP: Research Institute in Astrophysics and Planetology 
 - NICT: National Institute of Information and Communications Technology
 - DICE/UEC: University of Electro-Communications
 - SDU: Shandong University
 - UNIS: The University Centre in Svalbard
 - UKZN: University of KwaZulu-Natal
 
## Purpose

This WG is charged with maintaining the protocols for transferring Level 1 data 
files from PI institutions, first to holding institutions and 
ultimately to distribution institutions where they are merged, checked, catalogued and copied to 
servers for community access. 

## Holding Institution(s)

The holding institution prior to October 1<sup>st</sup>, 2013 was JHU/APL. See Appendix A 
for a description of the system that was in place at JHU/APL.

The holding institution beginning October 1<sup>st</sup>, 2013 is Virginia Tech. 
See Appendix B for a description of the system in place at Virginia Tech.

An additional holding institution was put in place in 2016 at BAS, and the official 
announcement was made on January 24 2017. Note that BAS is also a distribution institution.

## Distribution Institution(s)

The distribution institutions are currently USASK and BAS. See Appendix C for a description
of the current system in place at USASK, and a brief description of the 
previous system. See Appendix D for a description of the current system in place at BAS.

## Membership

The membership of the working group consists of several types of members:

1. The chair or co-chairs
2. Those responsible for providing data to the holding institution(s)
3. Those responsible for accessing data from data mirrors to download to their institution.
4. Others who wish to observe.

The current membership includes:

Responsibilty | Name | Institution | Radars
--- | --- | --- | ---
Chair | Kevin Krieger | USASK | sas, pgr, rkn, inv, cly
Member | Marci Detwiller | USASK | sas, pgr, rkn, inv, cly
Member | Marina Schmidt | USASK | sas, pgr, rkn, inv, cly
Member | Keith Kotyk | USASK | sas, pgr, rkn, inv, cly
Member | Kevin Sterne | VT | bks, kap, gbr, fhe, fhw
Member | Simon Shepherd | Dartmouth | cve, cvw
Member | Evan Thomas | Dartmouth | cve, cvw
Member | Akira Sessai Yukimatu | NIPR | sye, sys
Member | Jordan Wiker | JHU/APL | wal
Member | Enrico Simeoli | IAPS/INAF | dce, dcn
Member | Kehe Wang | BOM
Member | John Devlin | LaTrobe | tig, unw, bpk
Member | Jim Whittington | LaTrobe | tig, unw, bpk
Member | Mark Gentile | LaTrobe | tig, unw, bpk
Member | Andrew McDonald | LaTrobe | tig, unw, bpk
Member | Paul Breen | BAS | fir
Member | Tim Barnes | BAS | fir
Member | Bill Bristow | UAF/Penn State | sps, mcm, ade, adw, kod
Member | Jianjun Liu | PRIC | zho
Member | Hongqiao Hu | PRIC | zho
Member | Judy Stephenson | UKZN | san
Member | Tomoaki Hori | ISEE | hok, hkw
Member | Nozomu Nishitani | ISEE | hok, hkw
Member | Aurélie Marchaudon | IRAP | ker
Member | Tsutomu Nagatsuma | NICT | ksr
Member | Keisuke Hosokawa | DICE/UEC |
Member | Chris Thomas | Leicester | han, pyk, sto
Member | Tim Yeoman | Leicester | han, pyk, sto
Member | Qinghe Zhang | SDU
Member | Zanyang Xing | SDU
Member | Mikko Syrjäsuo| UNIS | lyr
Observer | Mike Ruohoniemi | VT
Observer | Kathryn McWilliams | USASK
Observer | Dieter Andre | USASK
Observer | Jean-Pierre St.Maurice | USASK
Observer | Federica Marcucci | IAPS/INAF 

## Communications

Communication shall primarily be done over email via the DDWG mailing list set up by Nozomu Nishitani,
maintained at Nagoya University. To send email to the list, send mail to <darn-ddwg@isee.nagoya-u.ac.jp>.
Previously, a mailing list set up by Julian Thornhill, maintained by Leicester University, was used. 
That list address was <darn-ddwg@ion.le.ac.uk>.

A person wishing to subscribe to the DDWG emailing list should contact the Chair 
(or co-Chairs) or the current PI institution’s member about subscribing to this list. 
Subscribing to the list should be only at the approval of the Chair (or co-Chairs) so that they 
are aware of an addition or change within a PI institution.

## Responsibilities

Chair/Co-Chair: Provide updates on the status of the SuperDARN data distribution system to the 
members of the DDWG. Operate and maintain the SuperDARN holding and Distribution institution 
systems. Track down gaps in data and resolve them, either by providing an explanation for why 
the data is missing, or retrieving it from the PI institution responsible if it is not a real gap.

Members responsible for providing data to the holding institution: Provide data in a timely and 
preferably automated manner to the holding institution(s), either by 'pushing' the data or by 
placing it in a holding area for the holding institution to 'pull'. 
Help with gap resolution when requested.

Members responsible for accessing data from mirrors: Set up and maintain a way of downloading 
data from the mirrors in a timely fashion for their PI institution. 
Provide feedback on the mirror setup.

Observers: Provide feedback or input on discussions.

## Raising Issues

Anyone can raise issues to the DDWG. The order of preference for raising issues is:
 1. Via the github repository here: <https://github.com/SuperDARN/DDWG/issues/new/choose>
 2. Via an email to the DDWG mailing list: <darn-ddwg@isee.nagoya-u.ac.jp>
 3. Via an email to the chair or co-chair(s)

## Blacklisting policy

TODO

## File checking policy 

TODO

## TODO: OTHER POLICIES
