.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/blacklisting-files.md, before:

---
name: Blacklisting Files
about: Issue to propose blacklisting a file or files from SuperDARN data mirror.
title: "[Blacklisted]"
labels: ''
assignees: ''

---

# Proposed File(s)
- Please list the file(s) you wish to be blacklisted

## Affiliated Mirror
- Which mirror did you get the data from?
- If it was not a mirror please include as much detail on where the file(s) were obtained. 

## Reason
- Why should this/these file(s) be blacklisted? 
- How does this/these file(s) affect higher data products?
- Please include the following to strengthen your reasoning:
     - code for testing or showing your reasoning
     - plots 
     - output 

### Potential Fix
- Is there a way to fix the files to be placed back into the distribution?
- Please make sure to give a detailed response if there is ways to fix the file(s). This solution will be passed onto the PI of the radar of the proposed file(s) that may wish to fix them instead of blacklisting them. 

### Potential Removal
- Is there any reason to delete the files from the distribution instead of archiving it?
- Please remember removing is to completely delete where blacklisting is to remove it from the distribution but still have in storage.

Commit message:

Changed blacklist to blocklist, blacklisting to blocking, blacklisted to blocked.

.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/blacklisting-files.md, after:

---
name: Blocking Files
about: Issue to propose blocking a file or files from SuperDARN data mirror.
title: "[Blocked]"
labels: ''
assignees: ''

---

# Proposed File(s)
- Please list the file(s) you wish to be blocked

## Affiliated Mirror
- Which mirror did you get the data from?
- If it was not a mirror please include as much detail on where the file(s) were obtained. 

## Reason
- Why should this/these file(s) be blocked? 
- How does this/these file(s) affect higher data products?
- Please include the following to strengthen your reasoning:
     - code for testing or showing your reasoning
     - plots 
     - output 

### Potential Fix
- Is there a way to fix the files to be placed back into the distribution?
- Please make sure to give a detailed response if there is ways to fix the file(s). This solution will be passed onto the PI of the radar of the proposed file(s) that may wish to fix them instead of blocking them. 

### Potential Removal
- Is there any reason to delete the files from the distribution instead of archiving it?
- Please remember removing is to completely delete where blocking is to remove it from the distribution but still have in storage.
